I think this little test with Nats streaming server and putting together this little test project has
had some pretty good results.
So we've now got this space listener, base publisher.
We got the listing of all of our different subjects.
We've seen how to create a event that describes some message we're going to send out and how to create
the custom publisher and listener as well.
So at this point, we're going to start to wrap things up and move forward.
But I do want to do a very quick summary and really touch on two items really quick.
So first off, thinking about how to test these things.
When we think about testing the publishers, the publishers themselves are actually rather similar to
making a plain network request.
In other words, it's rather similar to using something like Axios.
We're essentially using this class to make a request or publish some information.
There's not really going to be a lot of business logic inside these, and so we're not really going
to focus a whole bunch on how to test them.
Listeners, on the other hand, are a totally different story.
The listeners we put together are going to receive events, and the assumption here is that we're going
to do a lot of business logic or processing on these incoming events.
In that regard, these listeners are actually similar in nature to request handlers, and we're definitely
going to want to do a lot of testing around the listeners we put together and make sure that we handle
everything inside them correctly.
So we will be spending a lot of time to figure out how to write some tests effectively for a listener.
Okay.
One other quick item.
So at this point, I just want to highlight that we have centralized a ton of information into our common
module.
The common module is now going to be the primary source for where we define all of our different event
names or remember what they are called in the world of networks.
They are subjects.
Inside of here.
We also had the exact definition of what all of our different events are going to consist of.
So the subject for each of them and the data that these events are going to contain.
We are not going to define any events whatsoever inside of our different services.
Instead, we are going to import them from this common module.
And this is going to absolutely, positively ensure that all of our services are using the same event
names, and the data inside of them will always be consistent.
Now a quick side note, kind of like a higher level note here.
When I was first putting this course together, I've worked on this course for a extremely long time
at this point.
A very long time.
And the vast majority of that time was actually evaluating different options on how to put this common
module together.
And when I was really thinking about building this course and going through all that work, I thought
this section where we were talking about building out this custom event, handling stuff in the common
module, was going to be like a huge deal and it ended up being just about 14 videos or so.
I'm kind of shocked at how things actually turned out.
Anyways, back on topic here.
The reason that's really relevant is that I really cannot understate how important it is to put the
definition of all these events and these event names into some common location.
It is simply not feasible to only define these events inside of your services because as I've said several
times, you are going to make typos on event names and you are going to make typos on property names
as well.
It is guaranteed I 100% guarantee it if you try to define these things directly inside of your services.
And that's why putting it all inside of some common module is so, so helpful.
I almost wish that we hadn't put the common module together from the get go so that we could have experienced
the pain of having to guess these property names and have to go look them up back and forth.
And all that pain, I think, would have given us a lot more appreciation for defining the events inside
of here.
Now, I do want to say there is a downside to this approach.
We are writing TypeScript code, putting these event definitions inside of a TypeScript module.
So naturally, this whole approach right now is only going to work if all of our different services
are written with TypeScript.
If we have some other service using Java or something like that, well, this shared definition of what
an event is is not going to be quite so useful if you do expect to have services with other languages
being used inside them and you don't expect to be able to use some kind of common module.
All written TypeScript.
There are a couple of options.
So if you want to have a common definition of all the events, the information inside them, and share
it inside of some kind of polyglot architecture, you can take a look at some other alternatives, such
as JSON schema.
JSON schema allows you to define JSON structures, the different properties they'll have, the different
values they'll have, and some validation around those properties.
And this can be done in a cross language way.
In other words, a lot of languages have support for JSON schema.
So you can write your JSON schema inside of some kind of common repository.
So maybe a GitHub repo or something like that.
So you can easily work with it between different languages.
And then each year different services can pull in those JSON schema files and use them to validate events
that they're trying to publish.
Another alternative is proto buff.
Proto buff is a way of serializing information, not unlike JSON, but it compacts information into
a much more compact format.
Heard above can be used to define the structures.
It also has cross language support.
Finally, there's also something else called Apache Avro.
This is really themed around Java in particular, but there is support for a variety of different languages
as well.
It's just not as strong as the Java focused side.
So again, if you do expect to have some multi language services inside of your application rather than
doing a common module with TypeScript and putting the event definitions in there, you might take a
look at these approaches.
Just so you know, I did originally kind of tried to design this application using JSON schema.
I also did a version of it with Proto Buff as well.
Neither of them were anywhere near as usable as the TypeScript implementation we ended up with.
So I showed you the TypeScript solution because I really did believe it was a very good way of handling
this and avoided a lot of headaches that we would have ran into if we tried to make use of JSON schema
or proto buff.
So just throwing that out there.
All right, so enough of this pause right here.
Last thing we're going to do, we're going to take a lot of logic out of this little test project.
We're going to relocate it to our common module.
We're then going to rebuild it, republish it, and then update the common module inside of our ticket
service.
We're then going to go backward to the tickets world.
We're going to make sure that we start to publish events whenever a ticket is updated or created.
So still a little bit of work to do.
Let's get started in the next video.